# sitecomptester-extension
## Background

This is a SlimerJS test runner (formerly a Firefox extension) to run in-browser site compatibility test

This extension comes with a list of "tests" in JSON format - found in the data/sitedata.js file. Tests are run against live sites.

Each test is associated with a specific site compatibility problem in Mozilla's bug tracker.

# Running tests

You'll need

* an installation of [SlimerJS](http://slimerjs.org/)
* a clone of this repository

To run a single test, open the command prompt/terminal, go to your clone of this repository, and run slimerjs with arguments "slimertester.js" and a bug number. For example:

    slimerjs slimertester.js 1003821

You can pass in several bug numbers, separated by spaces. To run ALL tests, omit the bug number argument (this will take a while).

The slimertester.js script will output results to the console while running, it will also create a CSV file in the working folder. The CSV file is named "results-" and the current date. Existing files will be overwritten by new ones.

# Contributing test results

Test results are shown throughout the [arewecompatibleyet.com](http://arewecompatibleyet.com/) site. If you want to contribute your results, these are the steps:

* Fork https://github.com/hallvors/mobilewebcompat/
* Add the CSV file generated by the SlimerJS script to the data/testing folder
* Edit data/testing/index.json to add the new file name at the end of the array
* Commit, send me a pull request

# Writing tests

Here's information that helps you write tests. Additions welcome!

## Test format

An individual test is embedded in a JavaScript object:

    "BUG_ID": {
        "url": "http://example.com", 
        "steps": [function(){}, /*js redirect on first page, wait for next load*/
            function(){return hasViewportMeta() && location.hostname === "m.example.com";}
        ], 
        "ua": "FirefoxOS", 
        "injectScript": "void(0)", 
        "title": "example.com is broken",
        "testType":"xhr"
    }


## Structure explained

 * All tests must refer to a bug number. There can only be one test per bug.
 * The object has some meta data, and some code. As it's saved in a JS file and not JSON, we include function expressions directly inside an array.

## Properties

All properties but **BUG_ID**, **URL**, **steps** and **ua** are optional.

 * **BUG_ID** All tests are associated with a bug number, this number is the name of the property that references this test in the testdata object.
 * **URL** The URL to launch in order to run the test.
 * **steps** An array of functions. These functions implement the actual test code.
   * The **last** function in the array is expected to return true or false to indicate whether the test passed. 
   * Return values of any function that's **not** the last function in the array will be discarded.
   * The last function can also return a string to indicate an unexpected condition (i.e. 'element not found'). Strings will be logged as the test result.
   * If any function throws an exception (or returns a string starting with 'EXCEPTION:'), the rest of the functions are skipped and the exception text is logged as the test result
   * Any function in the array can return the special string 'delay-and-retry'. The framework will wait one second and run the same function again, up to 5 times.
 * **ua** An indication of how the browser should identify itself for this test. Valid values are defined in data/uadata.json. 
 * **injectScript** If a test relies on a certain page / environment state, this property can be defined. Any script specified here will be injected into the page as soon as possible when it loads. **Not currently implemented for extension testing - slimerjs only**.
 * **title** Optionally add the bug's summary to the test. This makes the test file more readable and the tests easier to review.
 * **testType** The only valid values for this property are 'xhr' and 'mixed-content-blocking'. The value 'xhr' means the test can be run by doing an XMLHttpRequest for the URL and pass the response to the function(s) listed in steps. **Not completely implementable in slimerjs**. The value 'mixed-content-blocking' means the test should monitor resources loaded by the page and note any that are http://. TODO: support 'xhtml' to look for invalid XHTML data?
 * **stepInFrame** is an object telling the framework to run a specific step's JavaScript inside a specific frame - such as stepInFrame:{2:'frame_name'}
 * **mobNavElm** gives a selector that will check if a given element is present - for example "mobNavElm": "button.navbar-toggle" will ensure the test only passes if an element matching this selector is present and visible


## Predefined functions


Tests can always assume that these methods are available:

* **hasViewportMeta()** returns true if the page has a META element with name viewport.
* **hasHandheldFriendlyMeta()** returns true if the page has a META element with name handheldfriendly.
* **hasMobileOptimizedMeta()** returns true if the page has a META element with name mobileoptimized.
* **mobileLinkOrScriptUrl(str)** returns true if the page has either LINK href or SCRIPT src attributes that contain the string 'mobile' (or the string passed to this method).
* **hasVideoTags()** returns true if the page contains HTML5 VIDEO tags.
* **noWapContentPlease()** used with XHR tests to look for WAP pages.


* **cssCheck(*classNameList*, *propertiesThatMustExist*)** - method that returns true if one of the class names has one of the properties. *This method is less used than the others and might be dropped or changed*.

